Gradient checking is a technique that's
helped me save tons of time, and
helped me find bugs in my implementations
of back propagation many times.
Let's see how you could
use it too to debug, or
to verify that your implementation and
back process correct.
So your new network will have some sort of
parameters, W1, B1 and so on up to WL bL.
So to implement gradient checking, the
first thing you should do is take all your
parameters and
reshape them into a giant vector data.
So what you should do is take W which is
a matrix, and reshape it into a vector.
You gotta take all of these Ws and reshape
them into vectors, and then concatenate
all of these things, so
that you have a giant vector theta.
Giant vector pronounced as theta.
So we say that the cos function
J being a function of the Ws and
Bs, You would now have the cost function
J being just a function of theta.
Next, with W and B ordered the same way,
you can also take dW[1], db[1] and
so on, and initiate them into big,
giant vector d theta of
the same dimension as theta.
So same as before, we shape dW[1] into
the matrix, db[1] is already a vector.
We shape dW[L],
all of the dW's which are matrices.
Remember, dW1 has
the same dimension as W1.
db1 has the same dimension as b1.
So the same sort of reshaping and
concatenation operation,
you can then reshape all of these
derivatives into a giant vector d theta.
Which has the same dimension as theta.
So the question is, now,
is the theta the gradient or
the slope of the cos function J?
So here's how you implement
gradient checking, and
often abbreviate gradient
checking to grad check.
So first we remember that J Is now
a function of the giant parameter,
theta, right?
So expands to j is a function of theta 1,
theta 2, theta 3, and so on.
Whatever's the dimension of this
giant parameter vector theta.
So to implement grad check, what you're
going to do is implements a loop so
that for each I, so for
each component of theta,
let's compute D theta approx i to b.
And let me take a two sided difference.
So I'll take J of theta.
Theta 1, theta 2, up to theta i.
And we're going to nudge theta
i to add epsilon to this.
So just increase theta i by epsilon,
and keep everything else the same.
And because we're taking
a two sided difference,
we're going to do the same on the other
side with theta i, but now minus epsilon.
And then all of the other
elements of theta are left alone.
And then we'll take this, and
we'll divide it by 2 theta.
And what we saw from
the previous video is that
this should be approximately
equal to d theta i.
Of which is supposed to be the partial
derivative of J or of respect to,
I guess theta i, if d theta i is
the derivative of the cost function J.
So what you going to do is you're going to
compute to this for every value of i.
And at the end,
you now end up with two vectors.
You end up with this d theta approx, and
this is going to be the same
dimension as d theta.
And both of these are in turn
the same dimension as theta.
And what you want to do is check if
these vectors are approximately equal to
each other.
So, in detail,
well how you do you define whether or
not two vectors are really
reasonably close to each other?
What I do is the following.
I would compute the distance
between these two vectors,
d theta approx minus d theta,
so just the o2 norm of this.
Notice there's no square on top, so
this is the sum of squares of
elements of the differences, and
then you take a square root,
as you get the Euclidean distance.
And then just to normalize by
the lengths of these vectors,
divide by d theta approx plus d theta.
Just take the Euclidean
lengths of these vectors.
And the row for the denominator is just in
case any of these vectors are really small
or really large, your the denominator
turns this formula into a ratio.
So we implement this in practice,
I use epsilon equals maybe 10
to the minus 7, so minus 7.
And with this range of epsilon,
if you find that this formula gives you
a value like 10 to the minus 7 or
smaller, then that's great.
It means that your derivative
approximation is very likely correct.
This is just a very small value.
If it's maybe on the range of 10 to
the -5, I would take a careful look.
Maybe this is okay.
But I might double-check
the components of this vector, and
make sure that none of
the components are too large.
And if some of the components of
this difference are very large,
then maybe you have a bug somewhere.
And if this formula on the left is on
the other is -3, then I would wherever you
have would be much more concerned
that maybe there's a bug somewhere.
But you should really be getting
values much smaller then 10 minus 3.
If any bigger than 10 to minus 3,
then I would be quite concerned.
I would be seriously worried
that there might be a bug.
And I would then,
you should then look at the individual
components of data to see if
there's a specific value of i for
which d theta across i is very
different from d theta i.
And use that to try to
track down whether or
not some of your derivative
computations might be incorrect.
And after some amounts of debugging,
it finally, it ends up being this
kind of very small value, then you
probably have a correct implementation.
So when implementing a neural network,
what often happens is I'll implement
foreprop, implement backprop.
And then I might find that this grad
check has a relatively big value.
And then I will suspect that there must
be a bug, go in debug, debug, debug.
And after debugging for a while, If I find
that it passes grad check with a small
value, then you can be much more
confident that it's then correct.
So you now know how
gradient checking works.
This has helped me find lots of bugs
in my implementations of neural nets,
and I hope it'll help you too.
In the next video,
I want to share with you some tips or
some notes on how to actually
implement gradient checking.
Let's go onto the next video.